# STeMV1R1
Symbolic Tetrad Manipulator
The tetrad formalism is an approach to general relativity that generalizes the choice of basis for the tangent bundle from a coordinate basis to a more general choice of a local basis, i.e. a locally defined set of four linearly independent vector fields called a tetrad <cite>kramer</cite>. Usually the choice of the tetrad is guided by the geometric/physical properties of the problem at hand. The advantage of the tetrad formalism over the standard coordinate-based approach to general relativity lies in the ability to choose the tetrad basis to reflect important physical/geometric aspects of the spacetime. This can be quite useful when investigating solutions and their properties, of the Einstein field equations. In the tetrad formalism, all tensors are represented in terms of their components (scalars) in a chosen basis and computations are conveniently carried out in terms of these components. Since the tensorial equations are written in terms of their basis components, large expressions can arise. This can be an advantage as well as a drawback but in many cases, however, the properties that one seeks or assumes usually become more evident. Apart from the direct use of the Ricci identities, Einstein field equations and Bianchi identities, one usually extracts important additional information through the use of the commutator conditions present in all the three major formalisms, Newman-Penrose(NP), Ellis-MacCallum(EM) and Geroch-Held-Penrose(GHP), mainly used in General Relativity. Overall, these computations and resulting scalar equations, can be extensive and complicated and so we have constructed STeM, which runs using Maple, and is composed of a comprehensive collection of routines, to allow the user to carry out most calculations and analyses in these three formalisms or any other tetrad formalism which is a modification of any one of these three systems.
